The Isle of Four Winds: Rune War
Copyright 1997 Arcanium Productions.
All Rights Reserved.
http://www.arcanium.com

The Story of the Rune Wars

Introduction to Precipice

   The Isle of Four Winds did not undergo extreme change and mutation during
the Period of Chaos, but its people did not fare as well.  The populace was
not devastated as in other regions of the planet, but the area was not large
enough to support its inhabitants once it became cut off from the rest of the
planet.  To add to the chaos, the rate of life form mutation was accelerated
due to the dependence on water for food.  The scattering of light off the
water's surface increased the magical potential of the inhabitants.  The
result was a population divided into many sects, all vying for the scarce
resources of survival, which naturally brought about constant warring.  The
increased exposure to magical energy, and the need to use it, made the Isle
of Four Winds home to the most advanced magic users on the planet.
   Set in the Third Cycle of the planet's history, the Rune War was devised
by the clans as a means of stopping the unceasing wars on the island.  Every
25 years, each of the four main clans chooses a magic user to represent them
in the coming Rune War.  These wizards are brought to The Tower of Four Winds
by the Mages of the Tower at the assigned time, to compete for their clan's
allotment of land for the next 25 years.  This arrangement was made once it
became clear to all parties that there could be no winners in the endless
fight that had become the way of life on the Isle.  The legendary Mages of
the Tower used their influence to get the rival sects to talk, and thus
implemented this cease fire agreement.
   This arrangement succeeded in many ways.  The fighting between sects was
eliminated.  This was enforced by four magical sentries which had been
summoned by the four Mages of the Tower.  The Rune War agreement also kept
the development and practice of magic as an essential element of life on the
isle.
   Another benefit was the slow migration of people to different sects.  If
one clan did not have enough resources, some of its people would attempt to
join other sects.  Those who exhibited high magic potential were gladly
accepted.   On the other hand, a clan which had been depleted due to failure
in the previous Rune War would be more willing to accept immigrants if it
gains lots of land in a later Rune War.  In time, it was hoped that these
factors would lead to racial harmony.


Rune War, The Beginning

   It was the year 5129.  The bitter war amongst the clans of the Isle of Four
Winds was raging like a fiery blaze out of control.   Civilization was in
absolute chaos.  Education and societal advancement flourished during the war
as each clan tried to discover and harness new sources of power.  Everyone
and everything was invested in the war effort.  Scholars researched the art
of magic, farmers fed the war machine and tacticians discussed intricate
battle plans.  Although many people and powerful wizards died for the honor
of their clans, knowledge continued to progress.  The discovery of magic 600
years ago, just previous to war time, became the focal point of the war.
However, because of the conflict, magical knowledge could not be traded or
linked.  This limited its potential to grow. The clans recognized this, and
some attempted to initiate peace talks.   These meetings never really
accomplished much, they were riddled with treachery and espionage as each
clan attempted to get a leg up on the others.   Even the gentle Marz were involving themselves in this underhanded
behavior.  Simply put, it was an ugly situation that got uglier as each day
passed.  The war could not continue at such a vigorous pace or all of the
island's inhabitants would be lost.  The Island and each clan was starving
for new leadership.  The people desperately needed individuals with open
minds.  Responsible figures that would make a concerted effort to replace
fighting with peaceful co-existence.  The time had come for co-operative
prosperity.
   Amidst the chaos of war, a secret faction of wizards had formed and
dedicated their time to ending the war by creating an arrangement that would
suit the needs of all the clans.  This faction consisted of four individuals,
representative of each clan.  For no other reason than divine intervention
this faction had formed.  The story goes as follows.

   They met head to head on the battlefield, destined to square off against
one another.  What was to follow, however, could only be explained as a
miracle.  As they rushed towards each other like charging rams battling for a
mate, something glorious occurred.  With their blades poised to strike, the
four wizards engaged each other simultaneously.  In an instant, their
powerful weapons struck down like chain lightning in a great electrical storm.
These were not standard issue blades, rather, weapons smithed with an
incredible alloy.  This alloy linked the magic within its wielder to the
blade, making it extremely volatile but hauntingly powerful.  As the blades
made contact with one another a fantastic explosion followed.  This explosion
spawned a mushroom cloud of blindingly brilliant light which enveloped the
four warriors.  It was a light so intense and so bright that a mere glance at
it would result in the melting of ones retinas.  As quickly as the light came
it disappeared.
   A rumbling of tremors rolled across the battlefield, stemming from the
instantaneous source of light.   The air became very moist and thick, so
thick that any movements made within it slowed to a snails pace.  Combatants
ceased fighting as it became impossible to attack with any potency.  All eyes
of those who remained that could see became fixated on the four warriors who
had caused this unexplainable event.  They were entangled around each other,
stuck in time.  The warriors had not moved since the moment of their
simultaneous strike, maintaining their attack stance with blades outstretch
and touching one another.  All the color had been sucked out of them, their
clothes, skin, and jewelry had all gone white.  It was a white so pure not
even the beautiful snow which covered Regency Peaks could rival it.  The
warriors were almost angelic, their statuesque appearance inspired a genuine
peace.  The rumblings of the aftershock created by the light reached a
constant pitch.  A low humming tone resonated throughout the immediate land.
The air suddenly became charged, static blue electricity flickered in the sky.
The flickerings became thicker and the resonation grew to reach an intensely
high pitch.
   Some of the battling forces became frightened with anticipation for what
was about to happen.  The weak willed fled the battlefield, taking cover
anywhere they could find it.  Other, more brave individuals, continued to
watch the incredible scene, determined to be a part of history.  The pitch
heightened to a piercing screech, so loud that it took on a tangible shape
which could be seen. The static cracklings formed a sheet of electricity
which spread across the ominous sky.  A dark portal opened between the frozen
warriors, at the point where all their blades were making contact.  The
portal then pulsated strangely and shifted colors from black to a crimson red.
It then began acting as a magical vacuum, draining the electricity and the
sound out of the air.  After it finished consuming all that was to be had a
dead silence ensued.  The silence was then interrupted by a cataclysmic boom,
the result of the portal overflowing with magic.  The warriors were engulfed
by the sound which singed their bodies, spreading them into tiny ashes
charged with pure magic.
   The ashes of the great wizards lay on the ground for a moment, twinkling
like tiny stars fallen from beyond the sky.  Then, with great enthusiasm, the
tiny stars lept into the sky and began mingling amongst each other as if they
were communicating.  They hovered above the original spot where the warriors
had clashed.  This spot was recognizable by scorching left by the brilliant
explosion of light.  The spectators were awestruck, hanging on every movement
of the intelligent stars.  After a few moments, the stars began falling back
to the ground.  They landed around the blast area, forming a perfect circle.
After they had all taken their place on the ground the electricity returned.
This time, however, it formed a cylinder, rising up from the circular base
the stars had formed.  It began taking shape, like a fantastic sculpture
molded by an unknown force.  In an instant the sheet of electricity pulsed
and then fizzled out.  In its place stood a beautiful monument, a tower
marked with mystical runes.  The landmark was an incredible site.  A
breathtaking source of beauty, it dominated the surrounding land.  The Tower
of Four Winds was born, born from the souls of four great wizards.

Return of Kings

   It was a rainy day.  Soft pine needles lay upon the wet morning ground.
The group trudged on, firm of will and strong of heart.  None stood in their
way.  Each of the four loomed godlike over the wilting lands.  Any who saw
them turned and fled quietly away.  Four wizards of such obvious standing
were more than a curse, they were an army.  Any who would have looked closely
might have seen the resolve in their faces, but it was not a merciless
resolve.  Their purpose was to bring an end to the warring and unite the
Isle of Four Winds.  They had returned to deliver their homeland from the
unceasing hatred and greed that had gripped it for centuries.
   This was a party the likes of which had never before been assembled.
These were the same four wizards whose legendary clash had created the Tower
of Four Winds many years ago.  They had been the most powerful wizards of
their clans.  Their first attempt at bringing peace to the island through a
showdown resulted in a standoff, the combination of their magics creating the
incredible Tower.  Their journey back to the lands of the Isle had bonded
them and shown them the true power of magic.  Now they were returning home to
finish what they had started.
   They marched east along the Raining River towards the Jade Coast.  Close
to midday, a brave young knight named Drago approached.  He realized this was
no ordinary group.  There was a diminutive Maithan wizard, shining brightly,
buzzing with attention and activity.  He spoke quickly to a Karthan woman, in
a tongue this young knight did not understand.  The woman was long, slender,
and moved with the grace of an angel.  A water dweller was moving on both
land and in water, keeping to himself.  Lastly was a regal iz elder.  Even
covered in mud and rags the lizard's style and aura were unmistakable.  The
young karthan soldier was astounded at the party.  He remembered the stories
of the Battle of the Tower, the portraits of Lady Amarah, and knew that these
were the Lords of the Tower.  The runty Maithan introduced himself and
offered the newcomer to join them on their journey to KnightHaven.  With
Drago, the group was now five.  Their pace was astounding, and the new member
was swept along without effort.  They reached KnightHaven on the Jade Coast
before nightfall the same day, a trip that should have taken two full days.
   Their plan was to bring leaders of the four main clans to the tower to
negotiate an end to the fighting on the isle.  Drago was given permission by
his chief to accompany the group on this mission, and to bring news back of
the outcome.  Word of the party and their purpose had spread.  The iz took
defensive positions near the coast and in the forest, but did not detect the
party until they had entered the capital city.  The elders had no choice but
to agree to the terms of this mighty band.  Next were the marz.  They were
happy to see their legendary Wizard of the Tower return to them, and were
happier still to join talks to bring an end to the war.  The marz were great
survivors, but their history was marred with conquerors and battles.
   Last on this crusade were the Maitha.  The only reasonable route to the
Maitha fortress on the Ruby Reefs was to cross the Goldholm River at the
north end of the marz domain.  This area would surely be guarded by the
paranoid Maitha, and would be difficult to pass without conflict.  The
companion was welcome, but would make matters worse still.  They attempted
to displace themselves across the river using a magic pendant, but Drago did
not arrive with them..  The wizards were astonished, not at all expecting the
failure.
   Drago emerged alone in the darkness somewhere underground.  The walls here
were smooth, but not made of stone or soil.  Resolved to find the wizards and
continue with his mission Drago felt his way along.  Once his eyes became
accustomed to the darkness, he saw that the tunnel was large enough for
marching at least 20 people abreast, and went on straight ahead.  He hoped it
spanned the river.  After a while, he stumbled into a sharply cut stone
staircase, and climbed at least 100 feet up.  The staircase was enclosed, and
the way became more and more crowded with stones, plants, and debris.  Drago
struggled through nearly impassable barriers for hours, not relenting, with
only his sword and a knife to aid him.  Faint light began to emerge through
the cracks.  As he drew nearer to the surface, the passage quickly opened
before him, and he emerged in a square stone hut that appeared to be the home
of some animals.  Luckily he was hidden from view, and looking out he could
see that he was now on the north side of the river some ways west of the
narrowest point of the river.  He covered up the hole he came from as best he
could manage.  A group of Maithan's approached.  Seeing that their leader was
one of his companions, he allowed himself to be captured.  The wizard and
Drago then left for the Ruby Reefs in the pretense of taking the young
Karthan knight prisoner.  By the next day, they had caught up to their other
comrades and entered the Maitha stronghold on the Ruby Reefs.
   Within a week of leaving KnightHaven, they had succeeded in convincing the
leaders of all four clans to meet at the Tower of Four Winds.


Send in the Clans

                Maitha: Children of Destiny
   I have never been one to rant about the inadequacies of the Rune War system,
but things have changed since the beginning of the arrangement.  Strange
wizards from who knows where have upset the balance.  The Rune War was
plainly supposed to pit the best wizards of each clan against one another,
but that spirit has changed.  Just like in war, the other clans have become
deceitful and unscrupulous, seeking out mercenaries to fight their battles
for them.  The Maitha are being cheated, and I feel the Rune War agreement
should be scrapped.  The fact that we were coerced into the deal under false
pretenses is not recognized by the infernal Mages of the Tower.  And then
they rule that our using Orachi was against the rules. He told us he was a
Maitha, how were we to know he was lying.  Anyhow, determination by racial
purity is extremely racist and therefore unjust.
   The Maitha are a humanoid race with a few peculiar features.  We are very
short and have small appendages.  The typical height of a Maithan ranges from
4 to 4.5 feet.  Secondly, the head of a Maitha is much larger in proportion
to its body than the normal humanoid species.  We attribute our intense grasp
of magic to this.  Not only do Maitha have large brains but we are able to
use them to their fullest extent.  A deep understanding of magic could
otherwise not occur.
   The greatest achievement of the Maitha is our discovery of magic.  We are
responsible for harnessing the magic of the winds.  In order to ensure our
strength of mind, all  Maitha are directed towards an understanding of the
powers of magic in their youth.  Unlike other races which sport a select few
people with magical capabilities, everyone in our clan is touched by the
power of magic.  Diminutive and somewhat fragile in stature, we Maitha have
realized that brute force is not a means to an end.  Therefore, magical study
and intellectual development are our source of strength and power.  We have
always believed that magic will be the single most dominant force in the
future.  We are the leaders in this movement, and will prove it in the end
through the Rune War, no matter the obstacles placed in our way.  The mind
will replace the sword.

                Kartha: The New Order
   Like the Maitha, the Kartha are native to the Isle of Four Winds.  They
too are relatives of the human race, however much more closely connected.
The Karthans share the physical appearance of humans except, on average,
being taller and thinner.  Of the four races that inhabit the Island, the
Kartha are the least magically talented.  In the eyes of all the clans this
is seen as a distinct downfall.  Try convincing the Kartha of this.  To
everyone but the Kartha, magic is viewed as being a tangible source of energy
which one can tap to discover many wonders and powers.  The Kartha view magic
as very much an anomaly and consider it somewhat foolish.  This has separated
the Karthan clan from all the others.
   The Karthans live by an ancient chivalric code which has permanently
governed their existence.   There are many misconceptions associated with
this lifestyle.  The Karthans are inherently spiritual but do not acknowledge
or worship a higher being.  Rather, their spirituality comes from within.
All Karthans are extremely dedicated to the mastery of the sword.  It is from
this pursuit that a link to the magical realm has been discovered.  One
avenue which the Kartha use to better their skills is, of course, intense
practice.  Skills competitions and tournaments are a constant in Kartha
society.  They are used as the measuring stick to determine who deserves the
right to sit amongst community leaders.  Because practice and repetition can
only guide the sword so far, some Karthan Knights turned to spirituality to
enhance their skills.  By incorporating visualization and meditation into
their practice routine, some Karthan Knights were able to unlock the powers
of the mind and open it to the realm of magic.  It was from this practice
that Karthans were able to discover the powers of summoning and enchantment.
By incorporating magic and the sword, the skills of the Karthan Knight were
able to flourish and extend beyond any limits that once plagued these great
Knights.
   After the discovery of magic a division amongst Knights was created.
Those who lived by the true old code, not relying on magic to supplement
their natural and practiced skills, feared magic and refused to pursue it as
a source of knowledge.  The old Knights fought to ban the new practices,
saying that it went against what the Karthan Clan stood for.  Realizing that
the Rune War system demanded a focus on magic, the elders of the Kartha
swallowed their pride and decided that magic was to stay.  More and more
Knights are now taking the path of enlightenment, having realized the
potential of this course.  Karthan society is just begining to catch up to
the other clans now that magic is an accepted practice.  For this reason,
Karthans will not be push-overs in the coming Rune War and ones to follow
                                           Kartal Redgrand

                Iz: Dark Scroll Legends
   Welcome to The Isle of Four Winds.  I am Alfarr of the Iz, and I will be
your host as you discover the history of my people.  Being a durable race,
the Iz are able to populate less hospitable regions of planets.  The main
settlement on Precipice was in the southeast region of the Isle of Four
Winds.
   In this age, our clan is thought to be native to the lands.  We have been
around for as long as the lesser races can remember.  However, truth be known,
we are actually immigrants from a distant star system.  The Iz have
documented their activity for thousands of years, and we have many records
from ages gone by.  The first Iz arrived on the Isle about 30,000 years ago
when space travel was a common activity, during the Golden Age of Precipice.
A proud people, we love to teach our children about their ancestry and
culture.
   The Iz are a race of intelligent lizard-like beings who stand erect.
Extremely physically fit by nature, our very well developed physiques ripple
with musculature.  We have long muscular tails which aid in balance and
movement, and are also quite useful in combat.  Full-blooded Iz beings have
precise body control, and are able to jump large distances.  The Iz are also
proficient swimmers, although not as comfortable as the amphibious Marz in
the water.  Our skin is very coarse and tough, doubling as natural armor.
   I have a deep interest in the history of my people.  I am intrigued by the
events leading up to the creation of the Rune War.  The most interesting
story I know, though, is of the legendary 'Dark Scrolls' that were said to be
held in our ancient library until the time of the second planetary cataclysm
some three thousand years ago.  These 'Dark Scrolls' consisted of books,
drawings, and memoirs that detailed unbelievably powerful weapons, power
sources, and other advanced technology.  Much has been retrieved from the
ruins of the ancient library, but nothing that could be our 'Dark Scrolls'.
If you ask me, I really doubt that they ever existed.  Others say that they
were stolen during the chaos, and that this led to war on the Isle of Four
Winds.  My question is, 'If they were stolen, how could the thieves know what
to look for, and why didn't the thieving clan dominate the war?'

                Marz: The Marz
   I am Eli the Incoherent.  It is my duty to introduce you to our clan, the
Marz.  Take that as a sign of how important my people feel this function is.
Tell outsiders about life as a Marz during the Rune War era.  Hrmmph.  Its
been so long that they call it an 'era' now.  I could be sleeping on the
seas, or better yet sculpting a beautiful stone.  How can I get the Maitha to
send me more of their beautiful stone?   Wwsssss.....
   Uc.  Sorry. Here I go.  Our once lush and beautiful lands and waters are
poisoned, the trees cry in anguish, the fish hate it.  War is a savage, hate
is a poet.  Why cry a river when a stream will do? (Oops, there I go again.
I suggest you get used to it.)  The plentiful waters that surround the island
made for a perfect home for our people long ago.  We are amphibious creatures,
magical by nature.  Today we flourish, as our culture is strong.
   The Marz are a gentle clan.  We know that our people were once among the
stars, far away from the comforts of Precipice.  Like most civilized peoples,
the Marz stand erect, walking on two legs.  Many uncivilized races have taken
to doing this of late too, it seems.  Both our hands and feet are webbed.
These features make us fantastic swimmers and underwater explorers (and shark
food, and duck sympathizers, and spies, although they preclude us from
walking on hot coals, must feel good, those lucky Iz).  We choose to keep
much of our culture a mystery to outsiders.  Most of us are shy and keep very
much to our own kind.  There is an interesting conflict within the Marz race.
The females are absolute figures of beauty, shiny long legs, pure innocent
faces, smooth soft skin and invitingly mysterious eyes.  They make my head
spin.  Errp.  The same can not be said for us males.  Often shorter than the
Marz females, we are plump and quite bulbous looking.  Still, the females
enjoy us regardless.
   The Rune Wars allow the Marz to continue to flourish.  Not an aggressive
race like the Iz, we are much more interested in the pursuit of knowledge and
magic.  Our dedication to education has translated into success in previous
rune wars.  Due to the stalemate in the last Rune War the Marz are looking at
using new wizards to recapture our short lived glory  Contrary to popular
belief, the Marz will not hesitate to use any means to succeed in the coming
War.  Seduction!  What DID Learra do to get Orachi on our side in the first
place?
