		Ziag
	 
	According to Ziag, conditions for his victory are extremely ripe.
     His clan has become somewhat negligible in the eyes the other races due
     to the failure of past leaders to achieve success in previous Rune Wars.
     Ziag is extremely determined to surprise the other wizards at the next
     competition.  He has learned from past failure and has cited self
     betterment as the only possible course of action that will undo what has
     been done to his sorry nation.  Ziag has traveled the four corners of the
     Isle in order to obtain delicate magical information to quench his thirst
     for victory. Most of his magical essence is by choice self taught, having
     decided not to take on a mentor because of the pathetic pool of past
     leaders and wizards.  Ziag is very much in touch with the tides of magic
     which wash within his soul.  He has learned to tap the innate magical
     nature of his clansfolk.  Through intense magical study, Ziag has
     discovered a way to harness the magical energy of his peoples desires.
     He will use this as a flagship of power to exact revenge over all the
     nations which call him weak.
	There is a distinct property of war which Ziag holds in high regard
     which may make him a potent foe in the next Rune War competition.  Ziag
     is a tactical genius and through intense study, thought and magic, Ziag
     has become a master of tactical application.  Ziag has trained himself
     to sort and apply strategy with calculating speed.  He has repeated his
     training methods so often that it has become instinct for him to adapt
     to different scenarios effectively.  Ziag prides himself on lightning
     quick thought, and will definitely outclass his opponents in this area
     of cerebral battle.  He is able to see all invisible creatures with his
     controversial monocle.  As well, all of his creatures are invisible.
	The nature of Ziag's magic is inherently versatile. Although the
     focus of his summoning is based in the realm of skulls, he utilizes all
     areas of tactical spell casting, enchanting his creatures with a full
     complement of supplemental spells.  Ziag is never seen hoarding or
     saving the power that may come his way during a competition.  He is
     constantly expending his power attempting to bolster his army with the
     various spells he has at his command.  Ziag is a very flashy fighter who
     relies on speed and finesse rather than pure power.  He does not allow
     himself to be overwhelmed or overmatched.  His intense grasp of
     enchantment magic demonstrates this.
        Ziag's crusade for knowledge has certainly raised the hopes of his
     people.  He can feel their excitement as the magical energies flow
     through his blood.  Ziag's ability to harness the hopes of his nation
     will make him a match for all wizards, especially those who regard the
     Iz as nothing more than a petty annoyance.

		Orachi

	The spawn of all that is evil and callous is the necromancer called
     Orachi.  The Isle of Four winds knows no individual as ruthless as he,
     the one without emotion.  Sadness, fear, anger, joy, jealousy and greed
     are sensations that do not clutter his being, making him the most
     focused and feared of all wizards.  Death and decay are all that are
     required to fuel his existence, they are his conscience. His aspect is a
     composition of energy from this arcane persuasion.  When looking into
     his shadowy eyes you can almost see the tortured souls of those who have
     crossed his path.  It is said that when you meet Orachi, you have met
     death.
	The nature of Orachi's existence revolves around the magic that is
     found within the realm of  skulls.  He is singularly in tune with death
     as a source of magical essence.  It is the fabric of his being.  Orachi's
     unearthly aura pulsates with the dark fire of death.  This has become his
     only link to the Isle of the Four Winds and for this reason Orachi is
     limited to the use of Skull magic as his source of summoning and
     enchantment.  However, due to his proximity to death, Orachi is also
     attuned to the most destructive creatures found on the Isle.  He has
     managed to call upon the Red Dragon, the Fire Elemental, and Maz'Ra the 
     Demon Lord to do his bidding, and will not hesitate to call on them 
     throughout the next competition.
	Orachi is a true mercenary, not native to any of the races which vie
     for control of the Isle of Four Winds.  He will choose to side with races
     only to suit his own needs, and to fortify his intensely evil magical
     essence.  The Maitha and the Marz are the only communities brave enough
     to have managed to secure the use of Orachi as an instrument in past Rune
     Wars.  Orachi will again side with one of these two clans in hopes to
     achieve total dominance and escalate his diabolic vitality.
	Orachi is somewhat of an unknown.  Although he is very much alive,
     considerable folklore has been attached to his movements.  Natives to all
     the races on the Isle have cited many reasons for his existence and
     continue to speculate. Some say that he is an overlord to rival the Gods 
     through constant killing sprees.His wanderings across the countryside have
     left it dark and destitute.  Others believe that he is an incarnation of 
     all that is evil.  What is agreed upon is that Orachi is most certainly 
     the most bizarre and most fearsome individual on the island.  If a wizard 
     is to defeat him in the coming competition, he or she will have to have an 
     iron will and a heart of stone, for Orachi does not let up.
	     
		Nucrus

	Touted as the elite Rune War contestant, Nucrus is a representative of
     the Maitha clan.  A veteran of past competition, Nucrus is the purest
     student of the actual game itself.  He relies heavily on his ability to
     play the game rather than the magic contained within the runes.  Nucrus
     is somewhat of a utility summoner and spell caster, only able to call
     upon the elements and minor beings to aid him in the battle process.  He
     has no affiliation to any particular realm of magic, which certainly
     hinders his ability to employ a formidable legion.  For this reason,
     Nucrus has had to move in a direction uncommon to most wizards.
	Nucrus has adopted a strategy that is extremely effective and quite
     frustrating to his opponents.  Knowing that he can not overwhelm other
     wizards by summoning creatures, Nucrus has shifted his attention to
     widespread movement and land defense.   Nucrus maximizes land acquisition
     through expert play.  In addition, Nucrus employs the teleport spell to
     quickly shift his minions for hit and run attacks on lands which have
     been left penetrable by unsuspecting adversaries.  The nature of his
     magic allows him the luxury of not having to divide his attention between
     tactical movement and gameplay.   Nucrus can then concentrate his efforts
     on burying his opponents through advanced rune battle strategy.  The
     Maitha adore his approach, as they are quite passive and profoundly
     intellectual.  They have relied on Nucrus for many years and continue to
     have confidence in him.  Nucrus has little room for error because his
     people will not tolerate failure.  Impulsive by nature, the Maitha will
     not hesitate to dissolve their pact with Nucrus if he wavers from total
     success.
	Nucrus enjoys the pressures of being Maitha.  They think very highly
     of their race and pride themselves on quick thinking and troubleshooting.
     It has become a common sight to see Nucrus dazzling his opponents with
     brilliant play and decision making, almost toying with them.  Nucrus
     carries himself with a cocky swagger, knowing that his play has rarely
     been matched in the past.  He very much looks forward to the coming Rune
     War so he can once again teach the veterans a lesson and embarrass any
     new comers to the event.

		Niana

	Niana is another foreigner to the Isle of Four Winds, a human.  Her
     intense aversion to the forces of evil have attracted her to the Isle.
     She has been following the legacy of a certain wizard in hopes of one day
     facing this individual and banishing him from the land of the living.
     Orachi is the one, the source of the raging tempest that blows within her
     passionate soul.  Relentless in her pursuit, Niana has finally pinpointed
     the whereabouts of her arch nemesis and feels that she is finally ready
     to face him.  She will take on any commission in the coming Rune War just
     to oppose Orachi.  Although she will meet the needs of the clan who calls
     her, she is set on another purpose.  Niana wants revenge.
	Long ago, Niana was a very passive woman, living in a small town far
     away from the Isle of Four Winds.  She pursued the study of magic
     half-heartedly because she did not have the resources available to truly
     harness such power.  Her town was extremely mundane, a small farming
     reserve beside a great river which the townsfolk had built their lives
     around.  Niana was content with her life, dedicated to her family and
     her town until one fateful day.  The skies suddenly darkened as an
     intense storm rose up and shook the foundations of the town.  Following
     the storm, an army of corpses and demons entered the town, killing and
     spreading its curse to everything.  At the heart of the army was a
     tortured soul, a twisted man that did not show emotion, Orachi the
     Necromancer.  The town was consumed within minutes and all that was once
     living had transformed into living dead.  Orachi left as quickly as he
     came, leaving the small farming town in ruins.  Niana managed to escape
     the torment by hiding in a small cave at the bank of the river.  When
     the sun came out and the blue sky returned she went back to town.  There
     was nothing left, even the chirping birds had been stolen by this
     heartless being.  Niana broke into a frenzy, she shed all that was pure
     and dedicated herself to revenge.  Her only course of action was to
     pursue the art of summoning and enchantment.  She turned to the only
     source of magic known to her lands, the Demon Lord.  She struck a pact
     with him.  Niana gave him her soul and in return was granted the gift of
     knowledge.  She loathed her decision but her anger cluttered her
     judgement, all she wanted was revenge.  She had become reborn as a child
     of fire.
	Intense study and magical manipulation was Niana's way.  She nurtured
     the fire the Demon had planted within her.  Through ritual meditation,
     Niana fed the fire of knowledge.  What was once a small blaze was
     transformed into a hellblast capable of consuming entire armies.
     Because of her aversion to the skull magic of Orachi, the magic within
     her guided itself.  It took on the form of the sword and the number.  As
     a result of this, Niana has become a summoner and an enchanter of these
     two realms, and a potent force in the coming Rune War.

                 Logun

	Although Logun is a new face on the Isle of Four Winds, his
     participation in the coming Rune War is much anticipated.  Not resident
     to the isle, Logun is a distinct type of faerie, foreign to all the
     native races.  Logun is similar to Nucrus in that he shares no
     affiliation to a magical realm.  However, his summoning skills are
     extremely potent.  Logun has come into favor of the dragons and can
     summon all types of these devastating creatures.  He has also discovered
     the secret of the Juggernaut and will most certainly call upon it to
     wreak absolute mayhem.
	Logun, a mercenary in the truest sense, will lend his service to any
     clan that wishes to have him.  Parables of his incredible summoning power
     have circulated throughout the land causing him to be the target of much
     interest by all the clans.  Being of the bardly persuasion, Logun
     traversed the Isle of Four Winds on a self promotional tour, entertaining
     natives with songs and poems boasting of his fantastic powers.  People
     have fallen in love with this enchanted performer.  He has become their
     choice in the coming Rune War thus increasing his marketability amongst
     clan leaders.  Logun will have many options available to him when it
     comes time to decide who he wishes to represent.  People of all types
     back this charismatic hero, which many clan leaders have recognized.  He
     is a representative of the common folk, the one to share a drink and a
     laugh with.  Because many of the other wizards are feared for their
     anomalies, Logun is particularly adored for his jovial and charismatic
     nature.  He has gained the enthusiasm of the natives and intends to feed
     from this.  The sign of a great performer is a large crowd.
	A drawback to Logun is his lack of a supplemental spell realm.  This
     may or may not expose a weakness, depending on how the runes fall for
     Logun.  This brash and persuasive character need only to look towards
     the dragons as a source of victory.  Logun will be one to watch for this
     reason alone.

		Lakkho

	Lakkho of the Kartha stands by the chivalric code of the honorable
     knight.  All that he accomplishes or attempts is for the good of his
     nation.  His piety and conviction to his people is unmatched by any other
     figure throughout the land.  Lakkho truly believes that there is much to
     be gained through patience and virtue.  His commitment to ethics is not a
     byproduct of his religious beliefs, moreover, it comes from within his
     magical fabric.  Lakkho's dedication and perseverance has allowed him to
     harvest his magical aura and detach himself from a mundane existence.
     This separates him from mere ordinary knights or crusaders of a church.
     The magic he possesses has become an extension of his blade, and it
     flourishes within him as hones his skills as a master swordsman and
     conjurer of good.
	The intense studies of the Knighthood have allowed Lakkho to discover
     a greater understanding of the magic that lies deep within his soul.  His
     patience has become instinct as in the case of most Kartha clansfolk,
     however, Lakkho has most certainly fortified this attribute through his
     machine-like conviction.  His magical nature lies within the power of the
     sword, therefore all that is summoned and enchanted by Lakkho is attached
     to this realm.  Quite often, Lakkho is seen conjuring the aid of
     reputable heroes like Carol the Great and King Drago.  He especially
     enjoys the company of these individuals because they share the sanctity
     that he so desperately cherishes.  Lakkho finds strength in his
     summonings, and for this reason, is rarely seen alone.
	Lakkho is misunderstood by the other races native to the Isle of Four
     Winds.  He is often considered a soft hearted individual willing to take
     pity on those that are deemed to be less fortunate.  This, however, is
     the wrong angle to take when facing him in competition.  While other
     wizards may expect him to limit the prize of his victory, he will pursue
     utter dominance.  His absolute dedication to his people has instilled in
     him the will to claim a landslide victory.  He intends to lead his people
     to glory.  His strength of mind coupled with his unparallel sense of
     patience will make him a worthy opponent in the coming Rune War.

		Kierac

	"The absolute master of summoning" is a title that describes Kierac.
     He is thought to be the oldest wizard on the Isle of Four Winds because
     of his intense grasp of the main summoning circles.  Great mystery
     surrounds Kierac much the same as it does Orachi except that Kierac has
     not achieved his notoriety through mass torment and destruction.  Rather,
     Kierac has attained fame through his ability to alter his appearance via
     personal genetic manipulation.  It is virtually impossible to chart his
     past movements.  Therefore, very little is known about the age and
     background of Kierac, all is left to speculation.
	Many tales echo the name Kierac.    One tale in particular has been
     agreed upon by many scholars and natives alike.  Kierac has participated
     in several Rune War competitions for the Marz and Iz clans.  Kierac says
     he favors these groups because they are considered somewhat alien.
     Throughout past competitions Kierac has baffled his opponents with his
     ability to summon powerful creatures from all the main realms of magic;
     skulls, swords, and numbers.  By drawing various entities from each realm
     he can form a decidedly deadly force.  This leaves many opposing wizards
     scratching their collective heads, wondering how he could have possibly
     mastered such summoning.
	It has been proposed that Kierac must have studied under the masters
     of each realm of summoning.  But how did he do this?  None of the masters
     have admitted to teaching him.  It was then discovered that he was indeed
     a shapeshifter.  From this discovery it has been assumed that the great
     masters taught him unknowingly.
	Kierac could care less about the methods he uses to obtain knowledge.
     He will use anything at his disposal to achieve total mastery of
     summoning, and to bring victory to those who call for him to represent
     them in the Rune War.
	Kierac has an unmatched thirst and capacity to learn the art of
     summoning, causing him to be unaligned.  His one motivation in life is
     summoning.  So long as there is knowledge to be gathered Kierac will
     pursue it using any means.  He has dedicated his life to acquiring all
     available summoning knowledge, and from this, has become the most
     celebrated Rune War wizard of all time.  He does not waste time with what
     he calls trivial supplemental magic.   He claims victory by employing
     absolute brute force, summoning the strongest, meanest creatures.  Once
     again Kierac has to be looked upon as the frontrunner in the coming Rune
     War competition.  Perhaps he will not compete.   Only time will tell.
	
		Javed

	Javed's affiliation to a clan is torn due to his lack of a true
     birthright.  He is born of native persuasion, however, he shares the
     blood of two races.  Javed's mother was a Maithan Elder and his father
     was a dedicated Karthan Crusader, making Javed the offspring of two high
     ranking individuals of conflicting races.  While Javed received the favor
     of both races, sharp Maithan intellect and intense Karthan dedication, he
     became a source of great conflict.  He was an incredible specimen, bred
     for wizardry and participation in coming Rune Wars.  The leaders of each
     of his clans recognized this and as a result began vying for control of
     him.  Javed left his home, a neutral township between the two clan
     regions, to seek peace and to concentrate on summoning and enchantment.
     By putting distance between himself and the clans, Javed forced the
     leaders to take action in hopes of resolving this issue.  It was thought
     by each clan that if he were to have only one living parent then Javed
     would become partisan to the clan of the survivor.  The Maithans and
     Karthans agreed to pit the two against each other in a mock Rune War,
     with the loser to be put to death..  Javed, still away in training, did
     not learn of this event and continued his studies.  His mother and
     father decided it their way.  They poisoned themselves and ended this
     horrible conflict in tragedy.  To this day it has been kept secret to
     Javed and the two nations have resolved to fairly commission Javed when
     the Rune War comes.
	Javed's magical aura was shaped when he left his home.  He sought
     refuge in the mountains where he became one with the crisp mountain air.
     He dipped into the magic of the air and learned to harness and control
     the wonders contained within it.  Therefore, without knowledge of a
     distinct realm, all his summonings are related to flight and the winds.
     Javed became the self taught master of the air, able to call upon such
     mystical beings as the Ki-Lin, Griffon, and Air Elemental.  His
     supplemental magic was shaped from a genetic trait given to him by his
     father.  The Karthan dedication to the sword was strong within him so
     Javed focused on it, allowing it to bubble within him, creating the
     substance for his enchantments.
	It is not known as to which clan Javed will be representing in the
     coming Rune War.  His ignorance towards the fate of his parents protects
     his relationship with his two native clans.  Until Javed discovers the
     truth he will remain loyal to these clans, having to decide which one he
     will unite with.  If Javed is to learn of the demise of his parents, no
     one knows what will come of the rage that will boil inside him.

                Dayla

	There is a point in the development of a powerful wizard when a
     teacher realizes his pupil is truly gifted.  Dayla, a disciple of
     Kierac, never attained this peak.  Kierac recognized her potential
     early, and acknowledges her as a competent, if unspectacular wizard,
     never to be seen within the confines of the Mage Tower for a rune war
     though.
	No one can pinpoint the moment when she became a legitimate contender
     within the marz wizard hierarchy to be their preferred rune war mage.
     Her best quality seems to be the fact that she is constantly
     underestimated.  Her tactics and spells are unspectacular for the most
     part, but in the end she always delivers a very strong impression.
	Being full blooded marz means that she is a dual breather, and fully
     amphibious.  Being underwater gives her lots of freedom.  The entire
     island is littered with channels and rivers so it is easy for her to get
     around quietly and secretly.  Her stealth rivals that of Kierac himself,
     though this is a very little known fact.

