								
                        The Isle of Four Winds: Rune War
			Documentation for Version 1.2 Demo

1	Basic Stuff
1.1	System Requirements
1.2	Introduction
1.3	Quick Start

2	Mah Jong Rules                       
	2.1		The Rune Set
	2.2		The Compass
	2.3		Playing the Game
	2.4		Scoring

3	Playing the Rune War
3.1		Selecting a Character
3.2		Casting Spells
3.2.1			Shimmering Runes
3.2.2			The Spell Menu
3.2.3			Summonning
3.2.4			Spell Targets
3.3		Map View
3.4		The Info Screen

4	Movement and Combat (Rune War Only)
4.1		Getting Information
4.2		Moving Your Creatures
4.3		Combat
4.4		Claiming Land

5	Vital Statistics
5.1		Characters
5.2		Creatures        
5.3		Spells
5.4		Special Abilities

Appendix A      Summary of Commands


Copyright c1997 Arcanium Productions.
All Rights Reserved.


This Documentation is an unpublished work fully protected by the Canada
Copyright Act and International Copyright and is considered a trade 
secret belonging to the copyright holder.


1.1             System Requirements

     The Isle of Four Winds: Rune War,(Version 1.2 Demo) has the following minimum
     system requirements:

     A system running Windows 95.
     DirectX 5.0 or greater.
     Supported screen resolution of 1024 x 768 pixels in 256 colors.(SVGA)
     Recommanded: DirectX Compatible Sound Card.
     

1.2             Introduction

     The Isle of Four Winds: Rune War is a strategy game with smooth, fast
     gameplay.  The game consists of two parts, a tile (rune) game, and a
     combat map.  It can be played by 1 to 4 players via LAN or Internet,
     two players via modem.  A full game takes from two to four hours. The
     goal is to control as much of the map as possible by the end of the game
     by summoning creatures to take over territories, and by taking land
     outright through winning rune battles. The game can also be played as
     MahJong with 1 to 4 human players networked in the same way.  The Demo
     does not have multiplayer option enabled.


1.3             Menus

The Cursor:     Left click on an option to bring the active cursor on it,
                or use the up and down arrow keys to cycle through the
                selections.
                Left click again on the active selection, or press ENTER,
                to choose it.

Starting a Game:
     First, go to the setup menu to customize your game.

Setup:
   Tutorial Mode:  Toggle Tutorial Mode (On/Off).
   Change Timer: Changes Timer Speed.  For Beginners we suggest maximum time (30 secs)
   Save Settings:  Save your current configuration.

     From the Main Menu choose New Game.
     Choose Solo Play.

Solo Play options:
Start Mah Jong      Start a single player game of Mah Jong.
Start Rune War      Start a single player game of Rune War.
Load Mah Jong Game  Loads your autosave game of MJ
Load Rune War Game  Loads your autosave game of RW

Saved Games:
        Games are autosaved after each round.  It can be loaded when you
	  quit a play session.
        MahJong games are saved after each hand is completed.
        RuneWar games are saved after each map phase is completed.

2                               MahJong and Rune War 
	
2.1             Mah Jong Rules

        These rules are just the basics needed in order to play the rune(tile)
     game.  Visit your local bookstore or library to find a more in depth
     treatment to learning the game of Mah Jong.

2.1.1           The Rune Set:
        The Mah Jong tile set has 34 different runes, of which there are four
     each.  A complete set contains 136 runes.
        There are two types of runes: suits and honors.
     
     Suit Runes:
        There are 3 different suits of runes; skulls, swords, and characters
     (in place of the dots, bamboos, and characters of a normal MahJong tile
     set). Each suit contains runes numbered from 1 to 9, and there are four
     of each of these, making 36 tiles of each suit, and 108 suit tiles in
     all.
        The 1 and 9 runes are referred to as terminals, as they Begin and 
     terminate the suits.

        The runes 2 through 8 are referred to as simples.
        The designations terminal and simple are used for scoring purposes.

     Honor Runes:
        There are 7 different honor runes, four winds, and three dragons.
     There are four of each of these runes, making 28 honor tiles in all.
        The winds include the four wind directions, east, south, west, and
     north.  The dragons are classified by color.  There are white, green,
     and red dragons.
        Dragons are "lucky" runes, and sets of them are termed "lucky sets".

2.1.2		The Compass
        As you start, you and your three opponents are seated above the Tower
     of Four Winds, looking down into its hollow depths onto the central
     summoning circle far below.  Across the bottom of the screen is your
     hand.  Your opponents are seated at the other three edges of the
     screen.  Their hands are concealed, and hidden from you.
        To the left of center is a round orb encircled by a floating green
     disc.  On the disc are the four compass directions, E, S, W, and N.
     The acting dealer is always East, and goes first for that hand. 
        The other three players' winds correspond to their seated position.
		Player 2 is on the right, South: 
		Player 3 is across the top, West;
		Player 4 is to the left, North.
	  On the disc,  the wind of the current player is yellow, all others 
     are blue.  The wind for your seat (bottom wind on the compass) is your 
     lucky wind for that round.  The wind in the middle of the compass is the
     prevailing wind.  This is a lucky wind for all players for this round.

2.1.3           Playing the Game:
	  The turn time ("X" seconds) is variable, and can be set from the 
     Change Timer options of the Main Menu.

        Dealing:
     Each player is dealt 13 runes.
     Players have "X" seconds (whatever the turn time is set to) to look over
     their hand, and Kong any concealed foursomes thay have been dealt.
     The first player, East, draws to start the game.  Once you have finished
     viewing your hand, you may press spacebar or click on the PASS button
     to begin the game.

     Playing procedure:
        Once they have drawn, each player has "X" seconds to select a rune 
     to discard.
	  To select a rune, left click on it, or press the left or right
     arrow keys to bring the rune-demon cursor over the rune.  The rune with
     the grey rune-demon cursor on it is the selected rune.
        To discard the selected rune, left click on it, or press ENTER.  When
     a rune is discarded, it appears above the discard pile, and is active for
     "X" seconds.  If no one makes a play on it, it falls to the discard
     pile. Play proceeds with the player to the right drawing a rune.  You'll
     still have time to look over your hand.  You may press spacebar or click
     on the pass button to continue.
     
     Making a Special Play:   Game, Kong, Pung and Chow
        Whenever a player claims an active discard with Kong, Pung, or Chow,
     the set is melded (placed in front of the concealed hand, and made
     visible to all players), and that player must discard.  Play then
     continues to the right of that player.

     Game: Winning Hands
        A winning hand consists of four sets and a pair.  Sets can be:
     Three consecutive runes of the same suit (sequence),
     Three identical runes (triplet),
     or four identical runes (foursome).
        Sets can be either melded or concealed.  Runes in the hand can be used
     in any combination to make concealed sets.  Concealed sets contain only 
     drawn runes. 
        Melded sets are fixed, the runes can't be used to form other sets.
     Melded sets contain one claimed rune.

        To declare 'Game', press 'G', or left-click on the Game button.
        Game may be declared on any opponent's discard.  Game can also be
     declared on a rune drawn into the hand.

     Kong: Making a Foursome
        In order to make a foursome and still have the right number of runes
     to make a winning hand, a supplemental rune is automatically drawn into
     your hand.  Treat the supplemental rune as if it were a normal drawn 
     rune.  You will have "X" seconds to choose a discard.
        To declare 'Kong', press 'K', or click on the Kong button.

        There are four ways to make a foursome.

     Kong: Triplet plus Discard
        If a player's concealed hand contains a triplet, and another player
     discards the fourth rune of that type, the player may declare 'Kong' to
     make a melded foursome.

     Kong: Melded Triplet plus Draw
        If a player has previously melded a triplet and draws the fourth rune
     of that type, the player may declare 'Kong' to make a melded foursome.
        A supplemental rune is brought into the player's hand, and play
     continues as if the supplemental rune had been drawn.

     Kong: Triplet plus Draw
        If a player's concealed hand contains a triplet, and that player
     draws in the fourth rune of that type, the player may immediately
     declare 'Kong' to make a concealed foursome.  Once the rune has been
     incorporated into the hand, 'Kong' may not be declared, and the foursome
     will not be recognized as a set.
     A concealed foursome appears in front of the player's hand as if it
     were a melded set, except that the outer two runes of the set are face
     down.  A concealed foursome is considered as concealed for scoring
     purposes.

     Knog: Foursome on Deal
        You have "X" seconds before the dealer draws to declare 'Kong' to make
     a concealed foursome.      	

     Pung: Making a Melded Triple
        If a player's concealed hand contains a pair or better of a certain
     rune, and another player discards that rune, the player may declare
     'Pung' to make a melded triplet.
        The melded triplet appears in front of the player's hand, and the
     player must discard.
        Play continues to the right of the player who declared 'Pung'.
        To declare 'Pung', press 'P', or click the Pung button.

     Chow: Making a Melded Sequence
        If the player to your left discards a rune, and you can use it to
     complete a sequence, you may declare chow.
        To declare 'Chow, press 'C', or click the Chow button.

        The rune is brought into your hand, and a cursor appears over the
     first rune of the highest ranking sequence which contains the claimed
     rune.  
        If the rune can be used to complete more than one sequence, the
     lower portion of the selection cursor will appear on other runes that
     begin a sequence containing the rune just taken in.  
        You have "X" seconds to select, either by left and right arrows 
     and enter key, or by left-click of the mouse.

     Example: 
          Your hand contains 2,3,5,6 of swords.  
          The player to your left discards 4 of swords.
          You declare 'Chow'.
          The 4 of swords appears in your hand.  The possible sequences
        containing this rune are 4,5,6 or 3,4,5 or 2,3,4.  The highest
        ranking of these sequences is 4,5,6.  The first rune of this
        sequence is 4.  Thus, the cursor appears over the 4 of swords.
          Other runes that begin a sequence which contain the 4 of swords are
        the 2 and 3.  With the cursor or mouse, you can cycle the cursor
        between the 2,3 and 4.
          You have the normal 5 seconds to select which sequence to meld once
        the rune is brought into your hand.
          Selecting the 4 melds the 4,5,6 set.
          Selecting the 3 melds the 3,4,5 set
          Selecting the 2 melds the 2,3,4 set.
          The default set is the highest ranking set, so 4,5,6 is melded if
        none is selected within 5 seconds.
          After melding the sequence, you have 5 seconds to discard, and play
        continues to your right.

     Melded vs. Concealed Sets
        There have already been several mentions of melded and concealed sets.
        There is a distinct difference between the two.  
        Melded runes appear in front of a player's hand in the set they were
     melded as.  All players can see your melded sets.  Melded runes can no 
     longer be used for any other purpose, be it as components for casting 
     spells or as runes to complete other sets.  However, a melded set does 
     count as a set towards completing a winning hand.
        Concealed runes are much more versatile.  They can be used in any
     combination to make sets, although each rune can only be part of one set.
     
     The Guardians
        The guardians each serve a function corresponding to the four
     gameplay options 'Game', 'Kong', 'Pung', and 'Chow'.  When you declare
     one of these, the appropriate guardian checks to see if the declaration
     is legal, and bellows out your claim if it is.  It is possible that
     another player's claim will supercede yours.  The guardian will animate
     after it has melded the set.
        Here are the guardians in order of priority, along with their color
     and function.
        Wizard: Game (Violet)
        Demon:  Kong (Blue)
        Hydra:  Pung (Green)
        Titan:  Chow (Red)
     There is no penalty for a false declaration.  The guardians will simply
     not acknowledge your claim.

2.1.4           Scoring

         Points 
Winning Hand                    20	
Sets
  Sequences                      0       
  Melded triplets          
    Simple                       2   
    Terminal and Honor           4   
  Concealed triplets          
    Simple                       4       
    Terminal and Honor           8       
  Melded fours                
    Simple                       8   
    Terminal and Honor          16   
  Concealed fours            
    Simples                     16   
    Terminal and Honor          32    
  Pairs                        
    Suit runes                   0     
    Ordinary winds               0      
    Lucky runes                  2     
    Double wind                  4      
 Concealed hand with	
   discarded tile	              10
 One Chance Hand**               2
 Self-Drawn Hand**               2

** 2 points for "One Chance" and "Self Drawn" are not counted if the hand
would otherwise be "No Points".

                Doubles
Lucky Sets
     Lucky triplet or foursome          1
     Double Wind triplet or foursome    2

Four triplets or foursomes
     0, 1, or 2 concealed               1
     3 concealed                        2
     4 concealed                    Limit

Three concealed triplets, one sequence  1

Three concsecutive sequences
(1,2,3 4,5,6 7,8,9 of same suit)        1

No Points                               1

All Simples                             1

All Terminals and Honors                1

Terminal or honor in each set *         1

One suit with honors                    1

One suit only                           4

Little three dragons
(3 dragon sets, one being a pair)       1

Ways of Going Out
     Supplemental Tile                  1
     Last Tile of Wall                  1

* Double for "Terminal or Honor in each set" only applies if the hand
contains at least one sequence.

To calculate score, add the 20 points for the winning hand to the points for
each set.
If this score is 20, the double for no points applies.
Now add the 10 points for "concealed hand with discarded tile" if applicable.
Add up the doubles that apply to the hand and multiply by the score by the
proper factor.
1 double     ->     Score X 2
2 doubles    ->     Score X 4
3 doubles    ->     Score X 8
4 doubles    ->     Score X 16
5 doubles    ->     500 pts. (Limit)
The maximum score of any hand is 500 points.

                Payment

When a hand is won, the following guidelines determine who pays the winner,
in terms of the score of the winning hand.

If dealer wins self-drawn:		Receives x2 from each player.
If dealer wins from discard:		Receives x6 from discarder.
If non-dealer wins self drawn:      Receives x2 from dealer,
                                    Receives x1 from other players.
If non-dealer wins from discard:	Receives x4 from discarder.


                Limit Hands

        Certain hands, due their consistency automatically receive a limit
     score of 500 points.
        These hands still require four sets and a pair.  Here is the list of
     automatic limit hands.
All Honors:             Winning hand contains only honor runes.
All Terminals:          Winning hand contains only 1's and 9's.
Big Four Winds:         Winning hand contains a triple or better of each wind.
Little Four Winds:      Winning hand contains three triples or better of
                        winds and a pair of the last wind.
Big Three Dragons:      Winning hand contains a triple or better of each
                        Dragon.
Four Concealed Triplets:        A hand containing 4 concealed triplets.
Heavenly Hand:          A winning hand won on a player's first self-drawn
                        rune, or on the dealer's first discard.
Nine Gates:             A concealed hand containing the following tiles, all
                        of the same suit: 1,1,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,9,9.  Any
                        rune of the same suit will complete a winning hand
                        with four sets and a pair.
Thirteen Orphans:       This is a special hand, and does not have the usual
                        form of a winning hand. This hand contains one of each
                        honor rune, N,E,S,W, Red, Green, and White Dragon.
                        Plus it has 1 of each terminal rune(1 and 9 of each
                        suit).  It contains a pair of any one of these 13
                        runes.  This hand is concealed, because there are no
                        actual sets.

*** Some of these limit hands are rumored to grant the winner a BONUS,
either as a special ability, supplemental effect, creature, or some map
effect.  As none of these have ever been achieved in previous Rune Wars,
their effects, if any, are a mystery. This is only available in the full
version of Rune War.

3             Playing the Rune War

	This section applies only to playing the game in Rune War mode.

3.1           Selecting a Character
        Each wizard is limited as far as which clans he or she can play
     for.  You may select any of the available wizards by left-click on
     their portrait.
        The flags of the clans that this character can play for remain 
     bright once a character is selected, the others become grayed out.
     Left-click on the flag of the clan you wish to represent.  Clan 
     determines your starting territories on the Isle Map.
        You may also select a clan first, by selecting the flag. Wizards
     who will not play for this clan will be grayed out.
        If you do not select a wizard or clan, it will be randomly
     determined by the computer.

        The next screen informs you of your opponents, their clans, and their
     playing position for the first hand of MahJong.
        
	  You can only choose from Orachi, Lahkkho and Dayla for this demo.

3.2           Casting Spells
	Spell casting brings the Isle of Four Winds to life.  Wizards must
     take care in casting, because in most cases, casting a spell alerts
     opponents to the runes in your hand.

3.2.1         Shimmering Runes
        You will notice when playing in Rune War mode that your runes have a
     shimmering outline.  This denotes the presence of magic within the rune.
     At the start of each hand, all the runes are recharged by the Mages of
     the Tower and possess magic.  There are many ways to use this magic:
     Discard: Discarding a magical rune yields 10 spell points.
     Melding: Whenever you meld a rune which contains magic you receive 10
        spell points for each such rune melded. (Note: The discard used in
        melding the set has no magic since another player has already
        discarded it)
     Casting Spells: Most spells require components as well as spell points
        to cast.  Any runes used as components have their magic depleted
        and do not contribute any spell points.
     Winning: Any runes with magic left in them will give you 20 spell
        points each if you win the hand.

3.2.2         The Spell Menu
	Press 'S'. (or click the wand button to the right of your runes)
     This gives you a menu of spells you know in two columns.  Spells in
     white text cannot be cast due to a lack of spell points or components.
     Spells in yellow text can be cast.  Those in red cannot be cast because 
     they summon unique creatures that are currently on the map.
	To cast a spell, left-click on any part of the spell info, including
     components, cost, or name.  When you cast a spell, the appropriate
     screen comes up to allow you to choose a target.
	To leave the spell menu without casting, left-click outside of the
     spell box, or press 'S' again.

3.2.3         Summoning
	Once you have summoned a creature from the spell menu, the map comes
     up to allow you to place your creature.  You can only summon creatures
     into one of your territories containing a summoning circle, or into the
     middle territory (Tower of Four Winds) where no combat can take place.
     The territories you can summon into have animated summoning circles.
     You have "X" seconds to place your creature.
        Each wizard can only have 5 creatures in play at a time, with as many
     as three in any one territory.  You can use the dismiss option during the
     map phase if you want to make room for a new creature.  You cannot 
     dismiss creatures from the map view screen while playing the MahJong plase.
 
3.2.4         Spell Targets

	Enchantment spells must be cast on a target.
	To target a creature with a supplemental spell, click on the
     territory.  This will bring up any visible creatures in the army boxes
     at the top-right part of the screen (your own invisible creatures can
     be targeted by you).  Now left-click on the creature you wish to
     target.  You can see the information on the creature before you cast the
     spell by right clicking on the creature.
	Friendly spells can only be cast on your own creatures.
	Enemy spells can only be cast on your opponents' creatures.
	Spells that affect a party are cast on any member of the party.

3.3           Map View
Press 'V' .  This allows you to look at the map as you would during the map
     phase.  Right or left-click on a territory for information on it.
     The territory info and visible creatures will appear in the top
     right portion of the screen.  Right-click on a creature for
     information on it.

3.4           The Info Screen
        Available during both the Mah Jong phase of the game and during the
     map phase, the info screen gives a summary of the four wizards' progress
     in the Rune War.
Press 'I'. (button is blue orb with ?). Shows the four players in original
     play order from top to bottom.  Left click on the "Close" button, or press
     'I' to toggle the screen off. For each player, the following info is
     given:
     Left to Right
       The Wizard's Portrait
       Icons for Name, Clan, and Spell Points
       Name, Clan name, and Spell Points.
       Clan flag and current creatures on the map.
       Icons for number of territories, total value of
         territories, and number of summoning circles.
       Number of territories, total value of territories,
         and number of summoning circles.
       Flags of the other 3 clans.
       Land claim points you have against each of the
         other clans.

4               Movement and Combat (Rune War Only)
		
        After each hand of MahJong is finished, the game moves to the
     map phase.  During the map phase, players may move any creatures 
     they have summoned, and claim land from their opponents.
        The map is a full overhead view of the Isle of Four Winds

4.1             Getting Information

        The East player of the last MahJong round moves first, followed
     by South, West, and North, just as in the MahJong phase.
        When it is your turn to move, you will see your wizard's picture
     on the right.  Also, you will see yellow dots moving from the center
     territory to the center of all adjacent territories.

     To the right of the map are several information boxes and buttons.
     The top information box is reserved for the name of the current
        territory.
     Below this are the stats for this territory, including combat
        values, land value, and whether or not the territory contains
        a summoning circle.
     The 8 square boxes below the territory info are for army viewing
        and manipulation.  The top set of 4 is reserved for defending
        armies, and the bottom set for attackers.
        Note:  The Tower of Four Winds can contain armies from all
        four clans.  You can view all four clans by left-click on
        a flag to cycle through the flags.
     The large framed window is the view window.  This shows a portrait
        of anything you are viewing.  The space just outside the frame
        of this window is reserved for enchantment icons (if you are 
        viewing a creature).  Right-click on an icon to see information
        on the spell it represents.
     Below the view window is an information box giving the mname of 
        the object in the view window.
     Buttons for Chat, Info, and Menu options, plus Dismiss, Undo, 
        and Done.

        To see information on a territory, simply left or right-click on it.
        On the map you will see a castle in each territory.  This castle
     identifies the clan ownership.  To see which player represents this 
     clan, either:
        check the info screen (Press"I" or the Info button), or
        bring up the territory info and right-click on the clan flag.
           (This brings up the wizard's portrait in the view window, 
           and the clan name below that.)


4.2             Moving Your Creatures

        To move your creatures, first bring up the territory.  Units selected
     for movement will have a bright green outline.
        To toggle a unit for movement, left-click, this will toggle the green 
     outline.  Now drag and drop from your current territory to the one you 
     wish to move to (must be an adjacent territory).  All units which were 
     highlighted are now in the new territory.

4.3             Combat

Combat Statistics: 
All creatures have four combat stats, (Melee\Ranged\Defense\Loyalty).

     Melee:  Attack strength of the creature in melee combat.  This is pitted
        against the defense strength of the opposing creature.  The difference
        (if positive) is the amount by which the opponent's loyalty is
        reduced.
     Missile: Attack value of the creature or territory in ranged combat, does
        direct damage to loyalty with no defense adjustment.  Ranged attack is
        used only for one round, before the melee combat begins, and does not
        affect creatures that have the special ability Ignore Missiles.
        Territories cannot be targeted by ranged attacks.
     Defense: Defensive strength of the creature.  Specifies the amount of
        melee attack strength the creature can negate in melee combat.
     Loyalty: The amount of damage a creature will take before abandoning its
        summoner.

	Combat takes place anytime a creature ends its turn in an enemy
     territory.

        The first round of combat is ranged combat.  Ranged combat is
     simultaneous, and includes the territory ranged attack.  The territory
     does ranged damage to one of the enemy creatures, and all creatures
     (attacking and defending) with a ranged attack rating of one or better
     shoot missiles at the enemy.  Damage is then resolved for this round.
     Territories and creatures that ignore missiles are not targeted by ranged
     attacks.  Apart from this, targets are chosen randomly by each creature.
     Target creature loyalty is reduced by the ranged attack strength of the
     opponent, with no defensive adjustment.
        After the ranged combat round, melee combat commences.  In melee
     combat, the team that holds the territory goes first.  The first battle
     pits the leading creatures of the two parties.  Melee attack value of a
     creature is raised by one for each additional creature in the party
     behind the one currently attacking.  (Thus, a party of maximum size, 3
     creatures, confers a bonus of 2 to the melee value of the leading
     creature.)  There is no such bonus to the defense or loyalty values,
     except for parties containing 2 or more creatures with the merge special
     ability.
	In combat, if the melee strength of a combatant is less than or equal
     to the defense of the creature it is in combat with, the following table
     applies:

		Defense - Melee			% chance to hit
                        0                               50
                        1                               25
                        2                               12
                        3                                6
                        n                             1/(n+1)

        Sample Combat:
   A Wraith(7\0\4\5) and a durlock(6\1\3\5) end their turn in an enemy
territory(4\2\3\5) that contains an Adventure Party(5\1\4\5).

Ranged combat:  The Durlock, the Adventure Party, and the territory all have
   ranged attacks.
        The territory targets the Wraith (random choice), doing 2 damage and
     lowering it's loyalty to 3.
        The durlock does 1 damage to the Adventure Party (Territories cannot
     be targeted by ranged attacks) reducing it to 4 loyalty.
        The Adventure Party ranged attack targets the durlock (random choice),
     and lowers its loyalty to 4.
        Territory ranged attack takes place first.  Creature ranged attacks
     are resolved simultaneously.  Note that even an already dead creature may
     seemingly be targeted because it is simultaneous.

Melee Combat:
        The Wraith has one supporting creature, raising its melee rating by 1,
     its statistics are (8\0\4\3).  The Adventure Party is (5\1\4\4).  The
     ranged attack values no longer come into play.
        The defending creature (Adventure Party) attacks first.  Its melee is
     5, the Wraith's defense is 4, so the Wraith's loyalty is reduced by 1 to
     2.
        The Wraith attacks, melee 8 versus defense 4, doing 4 damage.  The 
     Adventure Party's loyalty is now zero, and it flees combat, and it is 
     no longer controlled by its summoner.
        It is now the defender's turn.  The territory now engages in melee
     combat, summoning all it's native creatures and the power of its
     elements.(4\2\3\5)
        With its melee value of 4 against the Wraith's defense of 4, the
     territory has a 50% chance of doing 1 damage.  It is successful, and the
     Wraith's loyalty is reduced to 1.
        The Wraith attacks the territory, 8 Melee vs 3 Defense, doing 5 
     damage and conquering the territory.

        Note: The "First Strike" special ability affects the combat sequence.
        Parties led by Learra the Siren and Carol the Great get this bonus.  
        When such parties attack an enemy territory, only the territory gets
        a ranged strike.  The rest of the ranged combat round is skipped.  
        Also, the attacking team strikes first in the Melee round.

4.4            Claiming Land

        On your movement turn, any territories that can be claimed will have
     a deed scroll over the castle.  Double left-click on a deed to make the
     territory yours.
        You may claim any empty enemy territory which borders on one of your
     territories.  The enemy territory cannot be guarded by friendly creature,
     and you must have land claim points against the owner clan equal to or
     greater than the value of the territory.  Remember, some territories might
     seem to be empty, but could be occupied by invisible creatures.
        NOTE: The center territory, Tower of Four Winds, is neutral, and is
     not taken into account when borders are determined.

5               Vital Statistics

5.1	Characters

ORACHI:       Will accept call from Maitha and marz.
Description:  Orachi is a master of the Undead.  The source of his magic is
              the dead souls he leaves in his wake.  His origins are unknown.
Summoning:	All Skulls
Supplemental: Common, All Skulls
Specials: 	Red Dragon, Fire Elemental

LAKKHO:       Kartha wizard
Description:  Lakkho is the first Karthan bred wizard with the magical
              ability to be competitive in the Rune Wars. He is sure to
              become a legend among his people.
Summoning:    All Swords
Supplemental: Common, All Swords
Specials:	Green Dragon, Earth Elemental

DAYLA         marz wizard
Description:  Dayla is the next in the long line of capable Marz Rune War
              mages.  Her repertoire of spells focuses on loyalty and
              mobility.
Summoning:	All Magic Numbers
Supplemental: Common, All Magic Numbers
Specials:	White Dragon, Water Elemental

ZIAG          iz wizard
Description:  Ziag is a master of supplemental spells.  This power gives him
              the ultimate combat flexibility, being able to change the odds
              quickly in his favor.
Summoning:	Shadow, Kilor Celsbane, Sand Wraith, Chameleon
Supplemental: Common, All Supplemental
Specials:	Permanent See Invisibility

NIANA	Will accept iz or Kartha commission.  Will accept any call to
              oppose ORACHI.
Description:	Niana's pact with the demon lord Maz'ra gives her the dreaded
	Hellblast.  This, combined with a strategic spell list makes
	her an effective specialist.
Summoning:	Minotaur, Adventure Party, Fire Giant,
	Sand Wraith, Stone Golem, Thunder Bird.
Supplemental:	Common, Guidance, Dust Cloud, Brilliant Lights, Smoke
Specials:	Hellblast, Fire Elemental

KIERAC        Will accept call from iz or marz.
Description:  Kierac is a stealthy and resourceful wizard.  His uncanny knack
              for summoning has earned him the title 'Master of Summoning'.
Summoning:	All Skulls, Swords, and Magic Numbers
Supplemental:	Common
Specials:	None

LOGUN         Bard: Will play for any clan. 
Description:  Logun is friend to all.  His charisma and persuasion have
              garnered him the respect and favour of all three dragons.  His
              ingenuity has garnered him the secret to the Juggernaut.
Summoning:	Skeleton Horde, Durlock, Carol the Great,Adventure
	Party, Stone Golem, Juggernaut, Learra the Siren
Supplemental:	Mass Panic, Brilient Light, Heroism
Specials:	All Dragons, Logun's creatures heals 2 loyalties each map phase.



NUCRUS        Maitha wizard
Description:  Nucrus is a sneaky, underhanded trickster.  He can control 
	the game with his elemental tricks.  His unscrupulous tactics 
	are more than an annoyance.
Summoning:	Skeleton horde, Shadow, Minotaur, Adventure Party,
	Sand Wraith, Stone Golem, Tornado.
Supplemental: Common, Teleport.
Specials:	All Elementals.

JAVED         Will accept call from Maitha or Kartha.
Description:  Javed is master of the Air.  Being a telepath, he can
              communicate with the Rune War guardians even when silence has
              been invoked.  This makes him desired despite his inexperience.
Summoning:	Wraith, Thunder Bird, Ki-Lin, Griffon.
Supplemental: Common, Paralyze, Dust Cloud, Force Shield, Heroism
Specials:	Air Elemental, Telepathic (Can still use game options
              while Silence spell invoked (ie. Chow, Pung, Kong, Game))


5.2             Creature Database
(U) denotes unique creature

                        Skull Creatures                             
Skeleton Horde:
Melee: 4  Ranged: 0 Defense: 1     Loyalty: 3     Move: 1
Value: 80 Runes: 1,4     Special: Swarm
Foot soldiers of the skull summoning chain, the skeleton horde provides
support. Their sheer numbers allow them to swarm, attacking every member of
an opposing army.

Shadow:
Melee: 5  Ranged: 0 Defense: 2     Loyalty: 3     Move: 1
Value: 120     Runes: 3,7     Special: Merge, Invisibility
Shadows are a useful staple in the skull realm.  Their ability to merge
amongst themselves and maintain invisibility greatly enhances their attacking
prowess.

Durlock:
Melee: 6  Ranged: 1 Defense: 3     Loyalty: 4     Move: 1
Value: 200     Runes 2,8    Special: None
A valued member of the skull summoning realm, the Durlock provides an initial
foundation for a strong force with its missile fire and robust attack.

Kilor Celsbane(U):
Melee: 6  Ranged: 0 Defense: 4     Loyalty: 5     Move: 1
Value: 240     Runes 1,4,7    Special: Invisibility
The invisible undead knight is a formidable adversary to any mid-range unit.
With the addition of supplemental enchantments, Kilor becomes a potent foe to any opponent.    

Wraith:
Melee: 7  Ranged: 0 Defense: 4     Loyalty: 5     Move: 2
Value: 300     Runes 3,5,9    Special: Regeneration
Wraiths provide the most bang for the buck in the skull regime.  Regeneration
supplies durability in combat allowing the wraith to clean up any low to
mid-range enemies and territories.

Maz'Ra(U):
Melee: 8  Ranged: 0 Defense: 5     Loyalty: 6     Move: 2
Value: 500     Runes 6,6,6    Special: Hellblast, 25% Magic Resistence
The Demon Lord known as Maz'Ra may well be the most fearsome creature
available to summoners.  It can single handedly dispatch many capable armies
with its overwhelming attack strength and intimidating Hellblast ability.

                        Sword Creatures
Knight Templar:
Melee: 2  Ranged: 0 Defense: 3     Loyalty: 3     Move: 1
Value: 100     Runes: 1,4     Special: Mighty Blow
The Knight Templar is a solid low range summoning.  He has the ability to
combat any low to mid-range opponent with his impressive mighty  blow.

Carol the Great(U):
Melee: 3  Ranged: 0 Defense: 4     Loyalty: 4     Move: 1
Value: 160     Runes: 3,7     Special: Gate, First Strike
Carol is a versatile addition to any summoner that can call her to battle.
Her pendant allows her to gate to friendly summoning circles and gives her
army first strike if she leads them into battle by using the short range
displacement ability of her pendant.

Minotaur:
Melee: 4  Ranged: 0 Defense: 4     Loyalty: 5     Move: 1
Value: 200     Runes 2,6,8    Special: None  
Extremely resilient, the minotaur is an excellent choice for summoners.  It
possesses solid battle attributes at a reasonable cost.

Adventure Party:
Melee: 5  Ranged: 1 Defense: 4     Loyalty: 5     Move: 1
Value: 250     Runes 1,4,7    Special: See Invisible
The adventure party is a wise magical investment. It combines a formidable
ground and air assault with a stalwart defense.  Its ability to see the
invisible can foil enemy plans.
   
Fire Giant:
Melee: 5  Ranged: 2 Defense: 5     Loyalty: 6     Move: 1
Value: 300     Runes 3,6,9    Special: None
This high range creature is strong in all facets of combat like most sword
creatures.  Its initial ranged strike is followed by a potent melee attack.

King Drago(U):
Melee: 6  Ranged: 1 Defense: 6     Loyalty: 6     Move: 1
Value: 400     Runes 2,5,5,8  Special :90% Magic Resistance, Mighty Blow
King Drago is the jewel of the realm of swords.  His consistencies in the art
of war are bolstered by his resistance to magic.  Add his mastery of the
fearsome mighty blow and you have an awesome fighting machine.  Unfortunately
he is difficult to heal.


                        Number Creatures 
Sand Wraith:
Melee: 4  Ranged: 0 Defense: 1     Loyalty: 4     Move: 1
Value: 100     Runes: 1,4     Special: Invisibility
The sand wraith is an exceptional strategic unit because of its invisibility.
Pair off a sand wraith or two with a mid range creature and watch the
overconfident big ones fall.

Stone Golem:
Melee: 4  Ranged: 0 Defense: 2     Loyalty: 5     Move: 1
Value: 140     Runes: 3,7     Special: Regeneration
With its exceptional resilience and regeneration, the stone golem makes for a
solid low range creature ideal for support.

Learra the Siren(U):
Melee: 5  Ranged: 0 Defense: 3     Loyalty: 6     Move: 1
Value: 220     Runes 2,6,8    Special: First Strike
A hauntingly gorgeous individual,  Learra's hypnotic song freezes opponents
in combat when she leads an attacking party, providing her with the first
strike.  A good melee property makes this strike quite nasty.

Thunder Bird:
Melee: 5  Ranged: 1 Defense: 3     Loyalty: 6     Move: 2
Value: 260     Runes 1,4,7    Special: None
The thunder bird introduces a ranged attack to the number realm.  Couple this
with hearty melee and loyalty values and you have a powerful mid-range unit.
    
Ki-Lin:
Melee: 6  Ranged: 0 Defense: 4     Loyalty: 7     Move: 2
Value: 350     Runes 3,6,9    Special: Ignore Missiles
This fearsome serpent like beast has no visible weaknesses.  Its lack of a
ranged attack is offset by its ability to ignore missiles while its other
abilities are very impressive.

Shanahan(U):
Melee: 7  Ranged: 2 Defense: 4     Loyalty: 8     Move: 2
Value: 450     Runes 2,5,5,8  Special: Devotion;
Shanahan the Cloud Giant is the pinnacle of the number realm.  There are many
options available to the commander of this big boy.   Overwhelm most anything
by itself, or attach it to a party and wreak havoc across the Isle.

                            Dragons
White Dragon(U):
Melee: 7  Ranged: 1 Defense: 5     Loyalty: 8     Move: 2
Value: 500	Runes: 3 Wh. Dragon(WD)
Special: Cast draw char.(40 pts)
The White Dragon is extremely resilient and loyal by nature.  Factor in its
ability to allow the summoner to draw a character rune and its consistent
battle characteristics and you have a top notch unit at your command.

Green Dragon(U):
Melee: 9  Ranged: 0 Defense: 4     Loyalty: 7     Move: 2
Value: 500	Runes: 3 Gr. Dragon(GD)
Special: Cast draw sword.(40 pts)
The Green Dragon is a very hostile and aggressive beast.  Its lack of a
missile strike is supplemented by a fearsome attack strength and a high
loyalty.  When in play, this Dragon grants its controller the ability to draw
a sword rune.

Red Dragon(U):
Melee: 7  Ranged: 3 Defense: 5     Loyalty: 6     Move: 2
Value: 500	Runes: 3 Red Dragon(RD)
Special: Cast draw skull.(40 pts)
The Red Dragon has a particular affinity to the skull realm, allowing its
summoner the ability to draw a rune of skulls.  It has an intense ranged
breath attack and a capable defense making it another powerful minion to do
your bidding.

                                
                       Special Creatures           
Juggernaut (U):
Melee: 7  Ranged: 0 Defense: 4     Loyalty: 6     Move: 1
Value: 320     Runes:4SK,4S,4N          Special: Regeneration
This creature leads its category on the battlefield.  It combines strength,
resilience, and broad movement. The Juggernaut is indeed a powerful summons.

Tornado:
Melee: 5  Ranged: 0 Defense: 5     Loyalty: 5     Move: 2
Value: 240     Runes: N,E,S,W.          Special: Ignore Missiles
A wizard must draw upon the power of the winds to summon a tornado.  A
stronge mid-ranged being, the tornado offers immunity to missile attacks and
consistent battle attributes.

Griffon:
Melee: 4  Ranged: 0 Defense: 3     Loyalty: 4     Move: 2
Value: 170     Runes: E,1N,9N           Special: Merge, See Invisible
The griffon is a credible strategic unit.  Its ability to merge and see the
invisible along with its capable combat properties makes it a useful low
range creature. An excellent scout with its high movement.

Chameleon:
Melee: 3  Ranged: 1 Defense: 3     Loyalty: 3     Move: 1
Value: 150     Runes: 8 Sw, GD          Special: Invisible, Regeneration
Chameleons are stealthy archers of the lizard persuasion.  Their hearty
nature and loyalty to Ziag allow them to recuperate quickly.  This is the
only invisible unit with ranged attack capability.


                            Elements

Fire Elemental(U):
Melee: 5  Ranged: 2 Defense: 3     Loyalty: 5     Move: 1
Value: 300	Runes: Pair S
Special: Cast random discard.(30 pts and S), Fire Shield.
The Fire Elemental is a particularly volatile creature.  A potent attack
force that employs a solid melee and ranged attack, its ability to grant the
random discard spell is its real burn.

Earth Elemental(U):
Melee: 5  Ranged: 0 Defense: 5     Loyalty: 5     Move: 1
Value: 300	Runes: Pair E
Special: Cast scry runes.(30 pts and E), Regeneration.
Born from the ground beneath, the Earth Elemental is another consistent
battle force. The one who controls it receives the ability to peek at his or
her opponents hands with the scry runes spell.

Air Elemental(U):
Melee: 5  Ranged: 1 Defense: 3     Loyalty: 7     Move: 2
Value: 300	Runes: Pair N
Special: Cast silence.(30 pts and N, duration: 3 rounds.), Immune to missiles.
The Air Elemental proves to be the greatest combatant af all the elements.
Summoners calling upon this element gain the favor of the silence spell, an
annoyance to all wizards who are stricken with it.

Water Elemental(U):
Melee: 4  Ranged: 0 Defense: 4     Loyalty: 7     Move: 2
Value: 300     Runes: Tr W    
Special: Cast fog.(30 points and W, duration: 3 rounds.), Swarm.
The Water Elemental is a powerful force on the Isle, and in the Rune Game.
Fog is the strategic annoyance granted to the commander of this  element.


5.3	Supplemental Spells
                                
Common Spells

Dispel Magic    	Runes: None              	Target: Any unit    
Effect: Remove enchantments 		Cost: 100
Removes all enchantments from the target creature.  Does not affect any
special abilities.
                                
Lightning Bolt    Runes: None              	Target: 1 enemy
Effect: -1 Loyalty       		Cost: 80
The caster of this spell summons the power of the skies to strike an enemy
creature with a lightning bolt. Shocking!

Heal   		Runes: None            		Target: 1 friendly
Effect: +2 Loyalty, up to max 	Cost: 100
Description: An important supplementary spell, healing restores two loyalty
to a friendly unit..  Loyalty will be added up to the target's maximum.

Special Spell
This spell is only available to Niana, and also a special ability of Maz'Ra.
Hellblast		Runes: 6Sk,1RD      		Target: 1 enemy party
Effect:-2 Loyalty             	Cost: 80
Description: The most destructive spell in the lands, hellblast surrounds a
targeted enemy army with a searing hot firestorm causing some major damage.

        -------------------------------------------------------------
Skull Realm     All the components required for these spells are skull runes.

Demonic Compulsion Runes: None    			Target: 1 friendly
Effect:+1 Loyalty               Cost: 20
Description: The caster draws upon the power of the demons to bolster the
        loyalty of one of his minions.

Mass Panic   	Runes: 7,9               	Target: 1 enemy party
Effect:-1 Loyalty             	Cost: 50
Description: The summoner directs the face of fear at an enemy army group,
        sending them into panic and reducing their loyalty.

Paralyze		Runes: 5,8               	Target: 1 enemy
Effect: Freeze creature       	Cost: 40
Description: Another mind altering spell, paralyzing fear ceases the movement
        of one enemy creature for one turn as it becomes wracked with terror.

Reduction      	Runes: 4,9	             	Target: 1 enemy
Effect:-1 Defense, -1 Melee   	Cost: 60
Description: With this spell the summoner is able to harness the power of the
        skull realm to drain the will of one enemy creature, reducing its
        combat characteristics.

Magical Aura  	Runes: 2,5	      		Target: 1 friendly
Effect:+1 Defense        	Cost: 40
Description: The magic of this enchantment consumes its target, making it
        feel more confident in its abilities.  As a result, the creature
        touched by this gains in defense.
        -------------------------------------------------------------

Sword Realm     All the components required for these spells are sword runes.

Guidance      	Runes: 6               		Target: 1 friendly
Effect:+1 Ranged         		Cost: 20
Description: This spell sharpens the vision of one friendly creature with
        ranged combat ability,  enabling it to pinpoint its ranged attack.

Battle Fury       Runes: None              	Target: 1 friendly
Effect:+1 Melee               	Cost: 30
Description: An intense bloodlust flows through the veins of the recipient of
        this spell, making it a more fierce attacker.

Force Shield      Runes: 7,9               	Target: 1 friendly
Effect: Missile Damage -1     	Cost: 30
Description: The caster of this spell is able to conjure a shield of energy
        around a single friendly creature, reducing the effectiveness of
        missile and territory fire against it.

Dust Cloud          Runes: 5,8               	Target: 1 enemy
Effect:-1 Melee                 Cost: 30
Description: Swirling winds surround the target of this spell kicking up dust
        and other debris.  The target becomes distracted and unable to fully
        defend itself.

Heroism        	Runes: 4,9             		Target: 1 friendly
Effect:+1 Melee ,+1 Loyalty   	Cost: 50
Description: The target of this spell becomes inspired by visions of mighty
        warriors cutting down their enemies.  This greatly enhances the
        combat ability of the enchanted.

        -------------------------------------------------------------
Character Realm         All the components required for these spells are
                        character runes.
Mystical Fountain Runes: None              	Target: 1 friendly
Effect: Random           	Cost: 30
Description: The waters of a great mystical fountain are sprinkled upon the
        recipient of this spell giving it a random bonus. The target receives
        +1Melee, +1Loyalty or +1Ranged.

Blind Ambition 	Runes: 6                    	Target: 1 friendly
Effect: Mel+1, Rngd+1, Loy-2    Cost: 20
Description: When a friendly creature is enchanted with this spell it becomes
        extremely eager for battle, sacrificing loyalty for the lust of
        battle.

Smoke   		Runes: 8	              	Target: 1 enemy
Effect:-1 Ranged              	Cost: 20
Description: A cloud of billowing smoke surrounds one enemy creature limiting
        its visibility.  This will reduce or negate the target's ability to
        make a ranged attack.

Brilliant Lights	Runes: 7,9	      		Target: 1 enemy
Effect:-1 Defense        	Cost: 40
Description: Extremely bright lights appear and dance around the target of
        this spell, distracting it from battle and  reducing its ability to
        defend itself.

Teleport       	Runes: 4,9             		Target: 1 friendly
Effect: Special               	Cost: 50
Description: An excellent utility spell, teleport allows the caster to call
        upon the gates of travel to shift any one of his or her minions to
        any friendly territory.

             -------------------------------------------------------------
5.4	Creature Special Abilities

Hellblast  		Users: Maz'Ra the Demon Lord
Description: The presence of the possessor of this ability sends even the
        bravest of souls into panic. This is reflected by the loss of 2
        loyalty points to all that combat it.

Fire Shield 	Users: Fire Elemental.
Description: The fire shield reduces the loyalty of any creature that 
	  strikes its bearer in melee combat by one.

First Strike	Users: Carol the Great, Learra the Siren.
Description: Those who possess this ability and lead their party into combat
        forego ranged combat, and are granted first strike in melee combat.
        This only applies to attacking parties.

Gate   		Users: Carol the Great
Description: This ability allows the unit to teleport into any friendly
        territory containing a summoning circle by calling on the portals of
        travel.

Ignore Missiles	Users: Ki-Lin, Tornado.
Description: Creatures with this ability can avoid the effects of missile fire
        when in combat.

Invisibility	Users: Sand Wraith, Shadow, Kilor Celsbane, Air Elemental.
Description: Invisible creatures may move across the isle free from detection,
        only to appear in combat.  Surprise!

See Invisible       	Users: Adventure Party, Griffon
Description: Those blessed with this ability can see invisible units in
        adjacent territories.

Magic Resistence Major  Users: King Drago
Description: Those possessing Major Magic Resistence receive a %90 chance to
        ignore the effects of spells directed at them by any wizard.

Magic Resistence Minor  Users: Maz'Ra the Demon Lord
Description: Those possessing Minor Magic Resistence receive a %25 chance to
        ignore the effects of spells directed at them by any wizard.

Merge               	Users: Shadow, Griffon
Description: This ability allows creatures of the same type to link together
        in battle, instilling a +1 melee and +1 defense to each of these
        creatures, instead of just the +1 melee usually granted for supporting
        creatures.

Mighty Blow         	Users: Knight Templar, King Drago
Description: This fearsome ability gives the possessor a %25 chance to strike
        a devastating blow in combat.  A succesful mighty blow boosts melee
        strength by 3, and guarantees that at least one damage is done,
        regardless of the opponents defense rating.

Regeneration        	Users: Stone Golem, Wraith, Juggernaut, Chameleon,
					 Earth Elemental.
Description: Regenerating creatures are restored to maximum loyalty at the
        beginning of the map phase.

Swarm               	Users: Skeleton Horde, Water Elemental.
Description: Creatures employing the ability to swarm may attack a full party
        instead of just the leader, overwhelming them with sheer numbers.

Devotion			Users: Shannahan
Description: Shannahan heals 2 loyalty before movement phase.
        -------------------------------------------------------------

Appendix A:     Summary of Commands:

Hotkeys and Functions Reference Sheet

Press ESC at any time to return to the Main Menu.

MahJong Phase Hotkeys:

i:      Toggles the information screen on or off. (Rune War only)
v:      Toggles the map on and off. (Rune War only)
s:      Toggles the spell casting box on and off. (Rune War only)
p:      Will pong the current discarded rune.
c:      Will chow the current discarded rune.
k:      Will kong the current discarded rune or a foursome in your hand.
g:      Will call game and claim victory assuming you have a winning hand.
        pause: Will pause the game.(functional in any phase)
alt+tab:Will pause and minimize the game.(functional in any phase)
arrows: 1/Using thaese keys on your turn will cycle the cursor through your
        rune hand.
        2/Using these keys when chowing a discard will cycle through the
        chowing options in your hand, assuming you have multiple choices.
        You must select the first rune of the sequence you wish to meld.
space:  Will pass on the current discard, and bypass the timer.
pause:  Brings up the pause screen.


Map Phase Functions: (Rune War only)

view:   Right click on any territory or creature and its information will
        appear in the information box at the far right side of the map.
        Right clicking on a flag that is situated at the front of any player's
        army line will display the wizard controlling that clan.
toggle move:    When a creature is able to move it is outlined by a green
        cursor.  You may toggle this on or off by left clicking on the
        creature.  This will allow you to move creatures that sit in the same
        army line to different destinations. If you wish to move the entire
        army line then each creature's movement cursor must be active.
movement:       A creature or creatures in the same army line outlined by a
        green movement cursor may be moved.  This is done by left clicking
        and holding on the territory the creature or creatures are contained
        in, then dragging and releasing the mouse when at the desired
        destination.   Note: you may only move into an adjacent territory.
        Therefore creatures with two movement must repeat the above process.
swap:   Left click and hold on the desired target, then drag on top of
        creature you wish to swap positions with and release the mouse button.
        This is to organize the order of your army within a territory.
dismiss:        Left click on the dismiss button located at the bottom-right
        corner of the map screen to activate the dismiss function.  Select a
        target to dismiss and double left click on it.  It will be removed
        from your forces.  If you decide this is a mistake, simply left click
        on the undo button and that creature will return.  Note: this will
        also undo all that you have done that turn.
undo:   Left click on this button to reset the map phase of that turn.  All
        movement and land claims done on this turn will be undone, and you
        can do them over.
        Note: this will not reset the timer.
gate:   Gate is a power unique to Carol the Great.  It functions as follows:
        Carol can teleport herself and or units in her territory to any
        friendly territory containing a summoning circle including the tower
        territory.   To move the entire line simply left click and hold,
        making sure the green movement cursors are active, then move the
        cursor to the desired destination, remembering it must contain a
        friendly summoning circle, and release.   You may select a creature
        from an army line to gate by toggling their movement cursor on and
        off. 
        Note: Carol does not have to move herself, and gating a creature
        requires one movement point for that creature.
